And I think that that just did not exist. I mean,
Gina Carano sorta caught it a little bit,
but she was gone before it really caught fire, you know?
And then when she lost a cyborg, there was a,
there's a lot of like weird feelings about that because there's all these
speculations as cyborg was on drugs and then they looked at Gina Carano and she
was all beat up afterwards and that left his sort of weird taste in people's
[inaudible].
I understand that. And I think that, um,
their eyes are tasty. Um, no, I, I think that there's something to that.
I think, um, it's unfortunate because I'm like, I know Chris cyborg, you know,
I was the matchmaker, you know, with Invicta when she was fighting for us and I,
I was there for her weight cuts and I saw some of her struggles and,
and what a kind, kind person, she is just a genuinely kind person.
But then there's this persona of toughness and her saying this kind of thing to
rando or she's saying this to Gina and then they're saying it back and it's
this, that, you know, and it just like for some reason, um,
I never thought she got the, um, the respect that was due, but at the same time,
then she did fail a drug test. So it was like, ah,
like unfortunately you carry the burden of having your entire legacy be
questioned when you mess up like that.
But we know what the human body looks like. You know,
you know what a female body looks like and you know what someone looks like when
they most likely have been introducing male hormones into a female body.
I don't, I, you know, I,
I understand what you're saying because we know what we think is normal or what,
you know, what a female body is like. But I would say that, uh,
we know what a male body looks like too, without hormones and we, yeah,
and I mean, you look at somebody who's like perfect physique, Sage Northcutt.
I mean is everybody speculating the,
he's on steroids because he looks a certain way. Cause I,
I met the kid when he was a kid and he looked like that.
The problem that line of thinking is that he's a male and then he has natural
testosterone and that you can accentuate natural testosterone pretty
significantly, especially if you're someone like a Kevin Randleman or you know,
like a, a Marvin Eastman who just has this extreme mesomorphic bill.
There's a lot of people that are built that way that don't do anything illegal.
There's not a lot of women that are,
yeah, I, you know, I again, I, when we do the eye test like that, like I,
I completely understand that my, um,
I guess I wanted to believe that I wanted to believe that cyborg was drug free
and now I believe that she is, I believe that she's not. Yeah,
I believe that she's,
whatever happened in that time in 2011 she has rectified it.
She's passed all of her, I guess something happened. I'm not really,
cause it was with the UFC with some kind of test,
but it turned out it was with her birth control pills or something kind of
behind him. Yeah. Something happened with her birth or something,
something happened there. But
no, it's spironolactone.
And which is a DHT inhibitor with dihydrotestosterone inhibitor that is used for
a bunch of different reasons. It's used as a, um, it's used as a diarrhetic.
It's used for people combating the effects of anabolic steroids for females
combating the effect. It's used for cysts.
It's used for a bunch of bunch of different possible reasons to use it,
I think. Yeah.
Cause I think I've known somebody who's been on that for cystic acne before.
So I understand. I don't understand what happened in all of that.
And I would love to, I need to read about it. I'd love to know more about it.
It wasn't my, in my sphere of interest exactly right. But you know,
pre 2011 drug test,
I wanted to believe she was natural because I wanted to believe in her and
believe that somebody could be that vicious and for Roche's.
And wonderful like that and take it,
take the idea of women fighting to a different level.
And when she tested positive for the, um, it was a D D stands,
yes. Stands something in 2011, so whatever. Yeah.
And then, you know, and then I was just, I was heartbroken because first of all,
you know, it was just like, there was this, I didn't believe anymore.
And then I got,
I got to meet her actually in a professional setting and I got to know her as a
person. And you realize that when you know people, it's a lot more new student,
right.
Believe in you as a person and not, you know, you know what I mean? Well,
I believed in a lot of guys that turned out to be taking steroids. Yeah.
It's weird to associate, I guess. I never will. You're a nice person.
You're kind what you wish for the best. I do.
But I also wish for the best for women all the time and that we're not gonna
mess up. Right. But if you do wish for the best for women,
wouldn't you definitely want to take a hard stance against someone who's
introducing male hormones into a female body. And you know, they'll also,
the problem that is a lot of the effects are permanent, like the,
a lot of the effects of a woman altering her physiology with male hormones.
There's a certain amount of those effects.
And this is also argued against men taking steroids. There's a certain amount,
and there's been tests about this.
This isn't just speculation that certain amount of physiological changes are
permanent.
When you take steroids because you're introducing these hyper human levels of
testosterone to a male system and things change, bone density changes,
the shape of your body changes,
the tendon strength changes and your testicles shrink and certainly cause you,
you don't have the ability to predict to see that that comes back like the,
the testicular atrophy. It's really the shutdown of the endocrine system,
but that comes back and when it comes back,
there's a certain amount of the improvements that you've received because of the
steroids that you will keep forever.
So even when you're in that exact steroid area. Yes.
And which is one of the things that infuriates people that had been cleaned
their whole life is that someone can test positive and then they continue on
their career. Even if they are not taking steroids now they have a, a benefit.
They have a permanent benefit of taking those illegal drugs. That sucks.
Yes it is. I mean there's nothing like I can say like that would champion and
that being a good thing. It's not a good thing. But I will say that like,
she did not test positive the entire, you know,
since 2011 and so if there was that advantage in something like that,
we saw somebody like arena bearish and kickboxing still work that and still
find victory. Right. So I, I, I don't know,
should show one half to work against that. First of all,
the Zarina bar's fight was a Testament to sidebars, courage and yes.
And fighting spirit that she took that fight cause nobody wanted to fight
Georgina for a long time. And if you don't know who's Juliana barges,
if you watch her Moitai fight, she's some ungodly number of fights she's had.
She's a multiple time world champion and she's just so stunningly technical as a
fighter. But you know, you look at them physically, they look very,
very different. You know,
cyborg is just this attacker Berzerker style and fought a very good fight.
It was a girl that nobody wanted to fight. It was a wonderful fight.
It's like one of those fights even in a loss like her stock came up. Yes,
I bore things. I hate her. Look, I, I think she's awesome. Uh,
I'm a fan and I tweeted this many times along that at the UFC needs to make 145
pound women's division.
But there's also some realities that you have to address and those realities
have to be addressed for the other women that haven't done anything as well to
still look up for them. I think you're right about that.
I think that when people test positive,
I think that the penalties have to be harsh.
They have to be hard and I don't know what's going on with the new testing and
stuff like that. I'm not, I, I don't,
I'm not in the know when it comes to the UFC, I'm no longer on a team.
You know what I mean? It's like everything I do,
I've read through MMA media now, so, um,
I don't know who's testing what and what's going on,
but I will say that the men had been doing it for so long as well.
So should men who were clean have to have fought against men who were dirty?
Very good question. A lot of people think they shouldn't. Yeah. So it's,
I don't know what we do about clean slating it at this point. And it's also,
is it the same thing?
Is a man taking male hormones the same as a woman taking male hormones?
The man already has the male hormones. Right?
Wouldn't that be even more of an increase than a woman taking cause if a woman,
I mean, no. Okay. No,
because a woman's adjusting her physiology and becoming masculine,
whereas a man is becoming more masculine. It's, there's a,
there's a shift literally in the body structure that happens to women when they
start taking testosterone.
That's why a transgender man goes from a woman to a man.
All sons grows a beard, right? Chaz bono. It changes the shape of your face,
changes the tone of your voice, your voice gets deeper. I mean,
so many different factors play in that. I mean it's really depends on,
there's no, there's also, there's a rainbow, like a broad spectrum of dosages.
Like who knows how much you're taking, how long you're taking it for,
and then there's also massive negative consequences health wise for women.
I mean it's already hell on your body to fight and it's hell on your body to be
a female athlete in many ways it's wonderful and encouraging, but you're right.
And I, again, I don't have an answer for that.
I don't think there was a clean slate.
I do think that Chris cyborg is in the position right now with our career and
with the things that have been questioned about or the things that have been
done.
She has actually the opportunity now to really spearhead making it all clean and
coming, you know,
coming forward with whatever happened in the past with the Spears,
I forgot the name of spironolactone.
That's less of a concern because that's not really a performance enhancing drug.
The spironolactone is not gonna. It's not performance enhancing.
It's not like the other stuff. It wasn't a failed test then.
It was not prohibited or it is prohibited.
But she could get a therapy therapeutic use exemption. Did she,
I think she did,
didn't leave there doing that or in the process of trying to do that.
Maybe it has been cleared, but what that means is, look,
it's not hurting anybody she competes against. It's not that it's just,
they don't like people taking it because it can mask some of the effects of, um,
androgens in, in the female body. And it also, um,
as a diarrhetic diuretics are illegal because diarrhetics also can mask some of
the potential properties of testosterone or hormones or did away with all the IV
rehydration, the only person who liked Ivy Erie hydration.
You're the only one now. I think there's a lot of people that like to lie.
I was clean. I hate to say that I was clean my whole life,
but I was possibly, because nobody ever offered me anything.
If somebody offered you steroids, you think you would have taken it.
I don't know. I look back now and I'm like,
I wonder cause I wonder how many other women, yeah,
what if it was back in the day, like the wild West, like pride days,
like pride days where the wild West, like during pride,
like I talked to Ensign any way he described about as co his contract literally
in capital letter said we will not test you for steroids.
And Ensign was laughing about it.
It was like fucking everybody was on shit back then. I took that question.
I think I probably would have if I'd have been offered it. I don't know.
But then you think about that and then you think about,
okay 2011 was just on the cusp of being the wild West. Right.
So if she did take steroids, if she was on something,
isn't that just what everybody else was trying to do? Some people were,
I don't think Gina was doing it. [inaudible] did it at all? No,
some women definitely did for sure. I mean, you look at the old pictures,
the fighters, the generation before me, and I'm not throwing accusations,
I'm just saying people with musculature, like, like Becky,
Levi and people like that. You kind of wonder like, okay, how much of that was,
you know? Sure. Well I know girls that just compete in jujitsu tournaments,
that deuce desktop testosterone. I mean,
they just want to be stronger and better and there's no money in it.
They're just trying to get an edge. And it's kinda weird, you know, it's,
it's weird. It's, you know, they're,
it's amateur and no one's testing and they say everyone's doing it.
So they're doing it. So you go, okay, I got no position on this. I mean,
I don't know. I don't know what to say.
But when it comes to MMA and when it comes to professional sports,
and back then if it was the wild West, I'm sure a lot of people were doing it,
you know?
But Chris cyborg became sort of the poster girl when she looked apart and then
tested positive. Right? What, I mean, what do we do with that now?
That's a good question. What do you do with it?
I think she's a phenomenal woman.
I think she's a kind and good woman and a wonderful fighter for people to look
up to. So I don't, I don't know what you do with that now. I think that what
has to go on the table is just we take everything by what happens today.
And if a person doesn't test positive, we take them at their word.
Yeah.
The real problem though with what's going on today is they're offering these
massively steep,
steep sentences for people and suspensions for people. So like firsts,
if you get caught,
I think the first suspension is like two years and then if you get caught again,
it's even deeper and then three years, it's three times.
If you get caught a third time, it's like life. Yeah.
Like Vandelay Silva one is the most disturbing one to me because he ran away
from a test and they banned him for life. Like that is fucking, that's abusive.
Yeah. You got wonder how many other fighters have run away from it,
but it just wasn't as public like you know.
Sure. Well not only that,
but when you talk to [inaudible] son and about how sketchy the USADA people were
when they came to him,
like they made them do it in a broom closet and give blaze like this is this
sterile? Like who are you? Do you have an ID? Like they don't even,
they don't want to give you ID.
They just want to test right away and you just have to listen to them. Right.
Kind of understand in the case of him where they may be trying to Hawk,
I am a little bit more just because of his past. Yeah. But it is, um,
I don't know. I, I don't know when it comes to regulation,
who regulates the regulators? Like that is the question. Right.
But at the same time, we don't want this taken away from us. Right.
Like this whole thing that the, the, the moments of passion,
the Darren elegance moments, we don't want that taken away from us.
And to have that soured by knowing that that person was cheating, that,
you know, it's,
I think there's a huge emotional investment to see a clean sport. Well,
how about the greatest of gray areas, which is [inaudible] Belfort. Yeah.
They let them, yeah, they let them, I mean,
who was the testosterone use exemption and when he was doing it, Holy shit.
Was he fucking terrifying?
He looked like 19 year old VC look crazier than 19 year old V.
he looked like a demon. I mean, Vito would come out and just starch.
Everybody who's smashing people.
We'll kick Luke Rockhold when we'd never seen him throw a wheelchair in his
life. He threw two wheel kicks in his entire career.
Look at the pictures of him.
This is 2007 on the left in 2000 or 2012 in the left and 2017 on the right.
[inaudible].